India in Antarctica: India in Antarctica
India in Antarctica
It has been thirty-five years to date from the time the Indian scientists took their first cautious steps on the frozen continent of Antarctica way back in 1981.
We have certainly come a long way since then, both in terms of our scientific accomplishments as well as on the logistics front. These working groups: Antarctic Scientific Division and the Antarctic Logistics Division thrive hard continuously year after year which plays a pivotal role in the Indian Antarctic Program.
Over the years, several institute and universities from all over the country have been actively participating in the ISEA. A wide gamut of research fields have been attempted and executed successfully over the years and the same have been contributing to the world of science in a very significant way.
Antarctic region
provides an excellent opportunity for conducting scientific research for the benefit of all mankind. It happens to be one of the most pristine laboratories, of world-wide significance.
Antarctic Regions hold an important place while answering the key questions about the global climate change such as contribution towards global sea – level, the background aerosol properties, variability in the sea ice cover and phenomenon like Antarctic haze and Ozone concentrations.
Attempts to address some of these issues has helped mitigating on some important problems concerning human life and well-being.
Keeping all these in mind a comprehensive program encompassing the Atmospheric Sciences, Biological and Environmental Sciences and Earth Sciences & Glaciological Sciences. Apart from these, ESSO-NCPOR also encourages young students to participate in the Indian Antarctic Programme under the Student’s Participation Scheme. The response to this scheme in recent years has been extremely encouraging.
The table below gives a brief glimpse of the participating Institutions/Universities and their long-term (10 years) projects that are being carried out in Antarctica.
Latest News
Nourishing Health, Enriching Lives.
Official Launch of India’s New Ocean Research Vessel – ‘Sagar Manthan’
Brainstorming Session on Plastic Pollution, NCPOR.
Workshop & Brainstorming Meeting, NCPOR.
A pledge for cleaner oceans, a promise for a healthier future.
A meaningful effort towards promoting the promotion of the official language Hindi.
Exploring India’s Polar Presence & Deep-Ocean Frontiers
AFoPS, SCAR and IASC Strengthen Cooperation in Polar Research.
Read More »